ND
Parthenocissus quinquefolia

Family: Vitaceae
Common names: Virginia creeper
Creeper

Origin: USA

A vigorous large deciduous
climber, invasive, overrunning
indigenous vegetation.

Leaves in summer – green, five
ovate fingers.
P. quinquefolia is a Greek name.
"Parthenocissus" from Greek
means "virgin ivy" – "inquefolia"
means five-leaved.

Where found?
Virginia creeper was smothering
the big indigenous Leucosidea
sericeas on the northern border
of the reserve, below the
wetland.
In Johannesburg it is found
growing over trees, hanging
down obscuring pathways next
to the road, growing onto the
road, making it hazardous for
pedestrians to walk there.
<<COLBREAK>>
Leaves in autumn turn red,
flowers inconspicuous; berries
blue-black.

Treatment
Cut and pull out, follow up by
pulling out new growth.