Pennisetum setaceum
1b

Family: Poaceae
Common names: Fountain grass
Grass

Origin: North Africa

A tussock-forming perennial
grass with feathery, spike-like
inflorescences. The bristles are
long and detach with the
spikelets.

Spreads by rhizomes and seed.

The inflorescence is about 10-
25 cm long and rose or purplecoloured. (1)

Where found?
Roadsides and waste places.
Introduced as ornamental grass
from North Africa.
<<COLBREAK>>
Strong pioneer forming stands
along road verges and in other
disturbed sites with the potential
to spread into adjacent natural
veld, replacing the indigenous
vegetation. (9)

This grass is used for sand
binding and as an ornamental in
flower arrangements but is
obstructive along roadsides.
(3) & (1)

Treatment
Bromilow (1) ) recommends
industrial herbicide. In
Kloofendal Fountain grass is not
an invasive problem, so not
treated as such.