some distance away from the main stem. (1)

such as Black Wood (Acacia melanoxylon).
<<COLBREAK>>
7.
AIPs are very good at invading natural areas, through a suckering
system, multiple seed production, nestling close to indigenous
plants while small, which offers the AIPs protection from the
elements such as sun, providing shade from the drying-out,
protection from wind, frost, fire, and then overtaking these
indigenous host plants once AIPs are big.

8.
The AIP roots can be intertwined with the indigenous plant roots
(Lantanas do that), competing with the indigenous plants for water
and minerals in the ground, and with fungi and small creatures (eg
termites) essential for plants to grow.

9.
AIPs can make the soil and water in which they grow unsuitable for
indigenous plants to grow there (exuding germination or growth
inhibitors substances from their roots into the ground and water –
e.g. Black Wattle and Silver Wattle) a useful technique, called
Allelopathy, which allow the AIPs to eliminate competition from
their neighbouring indigenous plants.

10. AIPs have strong defence mechanisms making eradication difficult

e.g. Lantana thorns, Pyracantha spines, Cestrum parqui's
poisonous fumes and sap, allergic reaction caused by hairs on
Bugweed, plentiful seeds such as Pompom weed, non-declared
invaders such as Amaranthaceae and Boraginaceae family have
multiple burry seeds which make work on AIPs in disturbed areas
very difficult.

11. Suckering – shoots arising from the roots of a woody plant, often

12. Coppicing – regrowth from a stump or stem that has been cut (1),

13. AIPs do well in disturbed ground which is very common in human

populated areas, where ground is disturbed by usage, fences,
paving, buildings, gardening.