Ageratina adenophora (Eupatorium

Family: Asteraceae
Common names: Crofton weed, Mexican devil,
Snake root

Origin: Central America
(Mexico).

Perennial herb or soft shrub up
to 2 meters high, stems and
petioles purplish red, stems
hairy. Stems may be galled.
Broken branches have a strong,
unpleasant smell.
Grows in or near water, stems
creep in lower parts of the
plants, rooting at the nodes.
This plant is poisonous, causes
chronic pulmonary disease in
horses (3).

Where found?
In Kloofendal stream near Topaz
street, where stream enters
Kloofendal Reserve. Abundant in
Wilgespruit stream along
Christiaan de Wet Road and in
Magaliesberg streams
<<COLBREAK>>
adenophorum)
1b

Herb

(9)
Leaves tapering at the base
towards an ovate tip, with
serrated margins along the
distal 2/3rds.

Flowers are white in terminal
clusters flowering from August
to December. Not to be
confused with Plectranthus,
broken branches of which have
a pleasant smell.

Treatment
Try to eradicate before
flowering. Uproot plant by
grabbing hold of base & pulling.
If it does not come out easily,
cut off roots close to the plant
base & use tool to lever it out.
Roots left behind will not grow
again, but buried stems will.
Discard on dry rock away far
enough from the stream so that
the plant cannot be swept back
into stream.(5)