Sesbania punicea
1b

Family: Fabaceae
Common names: Red sesbania, Brazilian glory pea,
Coffee weed, Rattlepod, Rooisesbania

Origin: South America

A deciduous shrub or small tree
up to 4m high with many slender
branches. Drooping, dark green
pinnately compound leaves with
oblong leaflets that end in tiny,
pointed tips. (9)

(9)
(3)
Showy red or orange flowers in
dense sprays up to 25cm long
flowering from September to
March. (9)

Where found?
Wetland stream.
<<COLBREAK>>
Shrub

(9) (9)
Four-winged pods 6-8cm long
and 10mm wide, initially green,
turning brown with growing
mature.
Seeds, leaves and flowers are
poisonous. (9)

Treatment
Biological control by means of a
beetle from Argentina is proving
to be very effective, which is
fortunate as chemical methods
have failed and slashing it
causes vigorous regrowth, so
treatment, if no biological
control is used, is physically
removing the plants, best done
after the spring flush when the
plants have exhausted their
root reserves (1). Problem in
Kloofendal is small, so pulling
out with tree popper works well.