ND
Amphilophium buccinatoria

Family: Bignoniaceae
Common names: Mrs River's hybrid
Mexican blood trumpet

Origin: Mexico

A large alien creeper, creeping
high up in tall trees, with
rhizomes and stolons creeping
over the ground, shooting down
roots all over into the compost
ground. The old plants have
thick stolons and rhizomes
running along the ground and
high up into the trees, growing
over indigenous vegetation,
smothering it.

Where found?
Not in Kloofendal. On a forest
floor area near a stream in
Magaliesberg, climbing right up
the highest trees.
<<COLBREAK>>
Creeper

A pair of leaves comes off the
branch opposite each other. In
young branches often a tendril
comes off at that intersection
which winds itself onto its host
plant.

Pink tubular flowers, flowering
in autumn.

Not to be confused with
Mexican Blood Trumpet
(Amphilophium buccinatorium),
also alien, which has the same
flowers but red and orange in
colour.

Treatment
Remove by pulling up rhizomes
& stolons from the ground, cut
into pieces, stack up in piles to
reduce chance of roots growing
into the soil again. Saw/ cut
creeper stems going up into the
tree.