Fruit/seeds: Brown or purplish
brown flattened pods.

Not to be confused with

Acacia mearnsii (Alien invader),
also, bipinnately compound
leaves, but leaflets are dark,
olive green, not silver-grey to
light green. Leaflets, like A.
dealbata, are short and
crowded.
<<COLBREAK>>
Acacia dealbata (cont.)

Family: Fabaceae
Common names: Silver wattle
Tree

A. caffra â€“ indigenous tree.
Young plants have hooked
thorns.

(7)
Elephantorhiza elephantina, an
indigenous shrublet from a
large, red, woody underground
rootstock, often forming
extensive stands.
Leaves are bipinnately
compound, dying back in winter.
Pale, yellow flowers in dense
elongated spikes arising from
the main stem near ground level.

Treatment
Tree-pop the young Wattles.
Bigger ones, cut down low,
remove bark all the way down to
roots, remove new sprouts every
six weeks, until no more
sprouting.